# Section 6: About the Software | The Mac OS X Terminal

## The Mac OS X Terminal is part of your Mac Operating System and you can find it on your ~User/Applications/Utilities folder.

#### The Mac OS X Terminal is an application you are going to need and use to do many tasks like installation, configuration, testing and network surveillance in your server and in the internet.

#### The first command you are going to enter when a terminal session starts is root access.
```
Last login: Mon Sep 23 11:18:14 on console
server:~ server$ sudo tcsh
Password:
[server:~] root# 
```

#### From this point on you're on root access mode. Being logged as "root" carries many responsibilities and everything you do, (Please, think twice and never enter anything you pick up from the internet blindly) make sure it comes from a reputable source.

#### The first time you log as root, you will be displayed with a warning message. Read twice and then proceed by entering your admin password twice. We will be using and talking more about the terminal during our classes.

## On the Internal (LAN) and external (WAN) Network:
#### I also use tcpdump sometimes with the flags tcpdump -v or tcpdump -vv. Tcpdump is built into the Mac OS X and one can invoke from the Terminal. It seems that tcpdump translates directly from the DNS BIND activity.
```
6.1. Terminal [server:~] root# tcpdump
tcpdump -v
tcpdukm -vv
```

#### ifconfig is your everyday network stack watch. That is what I use to debug, design and build my network. ifconfig comes directly from your network stack; (wired) en0 and (wi-fi) en1.
```
6.2. Terminal [server:~] root# ifconfig
```

#### Netstat cannot stay out of your book, you sure are going to need it to find your router.
```
6.3. Terminal netstat
To find your router in the network:
[server:~] root# netstat -nr | grep 'default'
```

#### Other commands:
```
[server:~] root# netstat -r -f inet6
[server:~] root# netstat -Wan |grep 80
[server:~] root# netstat -Wan |grep 443
[server:~] root# netstat -r
```

#### Displaying your Routing Table:
```
[server:~] root# netstat -rn
```

#### To find your IPv6 Network;
```
[server:~] root# netstat -nr -f inet6
```

#### To test if a particular ip connects to the network you need to use ping. The right semantics to use ping goes as follows;
```
6.4. Terminal ping, Usage:
Wired Stack Interface en0
ping6 -n -I en0 [ipv6]
```
```
Wi-fi Stack Interface en1
ping6 -n -I en1 [ipv6]
```

#### ex:
```
[server:~] root# ping6 -n -I en1 2700:1800:c311:d2f0::3 <-- This ip is only an example! You must know what ip correspond to your network and use it to test if is connecting to the network.
```

#### Obs: To get out of the pinging session on the terminal, press Control + C

### Pinging your Route:
```
[server:~] root# ping -R ns1.domain.com
```

#### You want to be able to work your internal and external resolvers. To find out what is there,
```
6.5. Terminal cat [path]
[server:~] root# cat /etc/resolv.conf
```

#### lsof is also great to find out what port is opened and what connections is hanging on in that port.
```
6.6. Terminal sudo lsof -i:[port]
[server:~] root# sudo lsof -i:80
[server:~] root# sudo lsof -i:443
```

#### From the Terminal console clear your ARP table to repopulate the list.
```
6.7. arp
[server:~] root#/usr/bin someuser$ arp -d -a
```

#### Dig is an essential tool of every network administrator to manage the BIND domain configurations. Dig works both in IPv4 and IPv6 without any extra specified command.
```
6.8. dig
Getting the forward zone
[server:~] root# dig A domain.com
[server:~] root# dig A 192.168.1.90
[server:~] root# dig AAAA domain.com
```

#### Getting the reverse Zone.
```
[server:~] root# dig -x 192.168.1.90
```
